src/content/projects/my_first_errand.md, before:

---
title: DocuChat 
tags: 
    - Next.js
    - LLMs
    - Vector Database
    - Scraping
awards:
    -  Cohere Best Community Project Award
github: "https://github.com/amir002001/DocuChat"
image: ""
link: "https://docuchat.amir.day/"
---
# My First Errand

Created: November 24, 2022
DevPost: https://devpost.com/software/my-first-errand
GitHub: https://github.com/amir002001/my-first-errand
Technology: Figma, Next.js, React, TailwindCSS

## **Inspiration**

It can be difficult for parents to teach and effectively communicate the importance of being independent to their children. All children should eventually be able to support themselves and have the necessary skills to be responsible. A hit Japanese TV show, “Old Enough” which was recently added to Netflix displays children of ages 2-5 years going on tasks outside the house, navigating through the different neighborhoods, and doing the errand given to them by their parents completely alone. Research has shown that these errands are of extreme importance in the development of the child’s social and problem-solving skills. As mentioned in an NPR article:

> "Autonomous play has been a really important part of child development throughout human evolutionary history," says behavioral scientist Dorsa Amir at the University of California, Berkeley. "And actually, it was a feature of American society until relatively recently as well." This inspired us to create this fun and interactive game for children to have a sort of tutorial for what to expect in the real world and for dealing with common scenarios that they might face.
> 

## **What it does**

My First Errand is primarily intended for young children that are looking to start, well, their first errand. It helps kick start the learning process to become a responsible, independent individual. It does so in a fun, and interactive way using child-friendly graphics and characters all children are familiar with. There are four errands to complete which are “Learn Your Address”, “Stranger Danger”, “Let’s Get Groceries” and “Call Home”. These are the four most important errands and skills we felt are most important for children to learn. It helps them be safe and resolve any potential danger they can encounter.

My First Errand begins with a home screen where the four main characters of the application are presented to the child playing the game, creating a sense of familiarity and recognition for the important errands. It then transitions them to a dashboard where the child can navigate and start each of the four games.

“Learn Your Address” is a game where the child enters their home address (Obtained from a parent/guardian) and does a memory recall game through a multiple choice mini-game. “Stranger Danger” is another game where the child is informed of safe members in the community they can confidently approach for help. “Let’s Get Groceries” helps teach children how to look for items to buy in a grocery store and use basic addition to pay for the items, ultimately, teaching them how to purchase products. Finally, “Call Home” has the child input their home phone number (Which is also obtained from a parent/guardian) and they again memorize it through a multiple choice mini-game encouraging recall.

## **How we built it**

My First Errand was built on the React Framework. We wanted something interactive for kids to learn how to run their first errand in a way that didn’t feel like a chore. The reason why we used React was that it is good at one thing, and that is separating a piece of state and allowing us to make the application interactive with it. We used Tailwind CSS for quick prototyping of styles and React Router for navigation between pages. Lastly, Google Cloud Firebase was used for our sign-up system in the React application.

## **Challenges we ran into**

Of course, the initial challenge we had was thinking of an idea. It took a night of sleeping on ideas and many potential ideas bounced around but this idea was chosen because we believed it would have a great impact on children. Another challenge was technical issues with the development environment for React and GitHub but rather than being set back, the members worked on other elements of the project such as the design mockup and coding functionalities in a similar language. We also worked on merge conflicts together by utilizing the GitHub Desktop application, minimizing the overall merge conflict.

## **Accomplishments that we're proud of**

We are extremely proud that we came up with an idea for an application and the beginning of the app itself that can help make learning fun for kids and promote safety. We believe this will make a great impact on health, safety, and education for the youth and promote independence at a young age.

We are also proud that we were able to generate an idea, create a beautiful prototype and have the foundation for an application, in a short period of time. We reinforced our communication, collaboration, and organizational skills as well as developed our skills in JavaScript, React, Tailwind as well as Figma.

## **What we learned**

We learned about how difficult it is to teach such important skills that are common knowledge for adults, to children beginning to be independent. We also learned how to develop an application with React and explore the design capabilities of Figma.

## **What's next for My First Errand**

Due to time constraints, we weren't able to include all of the errands we had hoped to have in our mockups. The My First Errand team hopes to continue development in the near future.

Commit message:

feat: I'm too excited to write these

src/content/projects/my_first_errand.md, after:

---
title: My First Errand
shortDescription: It can be difficult for parents to teach and effectively communicate the importance of being independent to their children. All children should eventually be able to support themselves and have the necessary skills to be responsible. A hit Japanese TV show, “Old Enough” which was recently added to Netflix displays children of ages 2-5 years going on tasks outside the house, navigating through the different neighborhoods, and doing the errand given to them by their parents completely alone. Research has shown that these errands are of extreme importance in the development of the child’s social and problem-solving skills. As mentioned in an NPR article
tech: 
    - Next.js
    - Figma
    - React
    - Tailwind
github: "https://github.com/amir002001/my-first-errand"
image: ""
link: "https://docuchat.amir.day/"
devpost: "https://devpost.com/software/my-first-errand"
---
It can be difficult for parents to teach and effectively communicate the importance of being independent to their children. All children should eventually be able to support themselves and have the necessary skills to be responsible. A hit Japanese TV show, “Old Enough” which was recently added to Netflix displays children of ages 2-5 years going on tasks outside the house, navigating through the different neighborhoods, and doing the errand given to them by their parents completely alone. Research has shown that these errands are of extreme importance in the development of the child’s social and problem-solving skills. As mentioned in an NPR article:

> "Autonomous play has been a really important part of child development throughout human evolutionary history," says behavioral scientist Dorsa Amir at the University of California, Berkeley. "And actually, it was a feature of American society until relatively recently as well." This inspired us to create this fun and interactive game for children to have a sort of tutorial for what to expect in the real world and for dealing with common scenarios that they might face.
> 

## **What it does**

My First Errand is primarily intended for young children that are looking to start, well, their first errand. It helps kick start the learning process to become a responsible, independent individual. It does so in a fun, and interactive way using child-friendly graphics and characters all children are familiar with. There are four errands to complete which are “Learn Your Address”, “Stranger Danger”, “Let’s Get Groceries” and “Call Home”. These are the four most important errands and skills we felt are most important for children to learn. It helps them be safe and resolve any potential danger they can encounter.

My First Errand begins with a home screen where the four main characters of the application are presented to the child playing the game, creating a sense of familiarity and recognition for the important errands. It then transitions them to a dashboard where the child can navigate and start each of the four games.

“Learn Your Address” is a game where the child enters their home address (Obtained from a parent/guardian) and does a memory recall game through a multiple choice mini-game. “Stranger Danger” is another game where the child is informed of safe members in the community they can confidently approach for help. “Let’s Get Groceries” helps teach children how to look for items to buy in a grocery store and use basic addition to pay for the items, ultimately, teaching them how to purchase products. Finally, “Call Home” has the child input their home phone number (Which is also obtained from a parent/guardian) and they again memorize it through a multiple choice mini-game encouraging recall.

## **How we built it**

My First Errand was built on the React Framework. We wanted something interactive for kids to learn how to run their first errand in a way that didn’t feel like a chore. The reason why we used React was that it is good at one thing, and that is separating a piece of state and allowing us to make the application interactive with it. We used Tailwind CSS for quick prototyping of styles and React Router for navigation between pages. Lastly, Google Cloud Firebase was used for our sign-up system in the React application.

## **Challenges we ran into**

Of course, the initial challenge we had was thinking of an idea. It took a night of sleeping on ideas and many potential ideas bounced around but this idea was chosen because we believed it would have a great impact on children. Another challenge was technical issues with the development environment for React and GitHub but rather than being set back, the members worked on other elements of the project such as the design mockup and coding functionalities in a similar language. We also worked on merge conflicts together by utilizing the GitHub Desktop application, minimizing the overall merge conflict.

## **Accomplishments that we're proud of**

We are extremely proud that we came up with an idea for an application and the beginning of the app itself that can help make learning fun for kids and promote safety. We believe this will make a great impact on health, safety, and education for the youth and promote independence at a young age.

We are also proud that we were able to generate an idea, create a beautiful prototype and have the foundation for an application, in a short period of time. We reinforced our communication, collaboration, and organizational skills as well as developed our skills in JavaScript, React, Tailwind as well as Figma.

## **What we learned**

We learned about how difficult it is to teach such important skills that are common knowledge for adults, to children beginning to be independent. We also learned how to develop an application with React and explore the design capabilities of Figma.

## **What's next for My First Errand**

Due to time constraints, we weren't able to include all of the errands we had hoped to have in our mockups. The My First Errand team hopes to continue development in the near future.
